# Milestone 2:

## Texturing and Texture Animation (Zongxin Cui)
- Texture
   - Initially having trouble figure out how to load texture file, but evetually figured out
   - Constructed the VBO texture data in a hard coded way, soon change to using unordered map and set to store and retrive data
   - The normal texture did not worked as good as expected, but I added block face direction to the normal vector then normalize the normal vector to increase the contrast of different block face
- Texture Animation
   - Initially struggling to get the right changing offset for the uv to make runing water and lava, but later figure it out
- Currently working on fog effect


## Multi-Thread (Zhiyuan Liang)
I used to implement multi-thread in a wrong way. But my teammate told me that Adam said our multi-thread method was wrong. Then I checked the example code from the lecture. I re-implemented the multi-thread and only called thread.join when the application is going to end.
I used newChunks, BlockTypeBuffer and VBOdataBuffer to temporarily store the created chunks' uPtr. I used to two mutexes to make sure that the modifications to these buffers are atomic.



# Milestone 1: 

[Milestone 1 demonstration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VI6Wz9TMFQs)

## Procedural Terrain (Zhiyuan Liang)

To achieve the realistic terrain effect. I tried different combinations of noise and tuned the parameters and seeds. I tested the noise effect in HW5 post-process shader.
The noise I tried:
1. FBM only
2. Worley Noise only
3. Perlin Noise only (including summed-perlin, recursive perlin)
4. FBM warped by FBM/Worley/Perlin
5. Worley warped by FBM/Worley/Perlin
6. Perlin warped by FBM/Worley/Perlin
7. Simplex Noise only (including summed-perlin)
8. Simplex Noise warped by FBM/Worley/Perlin

After tuning the parameter, I found the Simplex noise with Perlin noise warp had the best effect.

I also designed the API for the additional biomes for milestone 3.
I also implemented part of multi-thread of milestone 2 because I can not stand the torture of slow rendering speed.

## Game Engine Tick Function and Player Physics (Ruifan Wang)

- Jumping
   - to avoid click space before it lands, I had to add another global variable to inputs to store whether it is on the ground or not
   - to avoid holding space and flying up, I added a condition that checks if I am on the ground or not before jumping
- Collision detection
   - initially, I implemented the way that the player's movement will come to a complete halt when it collides
   - eventually, I did the same thing but one axis at a time to allow smoother collisions such as walking along the wall
- Placing block
   - initially, I made it that it could place a block only if the space was empty, but I had a hard time placing blocks this way
   - then I realized that I should check if gridMarch returns true, and then players wouldn't be able to place blocks in the air
- Velocity and acceleration
   - just the overall tuning of the velocity and acceleration is definitely a pain in the butt

## Efficient Terrain Rendering and Chunking (Zongxin Cui)
- Chunk Class (I model the majority of this part after HW5-6-7)
  - reorganize the basic element of the terrain from blocks to chunks, which is a 16x16x256 block bundle. 
  - I also change the VBO data into interleave style, eg:poscolnormposcolnorm, to speed up the transmission between CPU and GPU
  - organize the block information, eg: pos, UV, normal, collectively to improve future debugging
  - implemented a specific render process for interleaving VBO in the shader program
- Terrain Generation
  - the terrain is now generated by the zone unit, a 4x4 chunk bundle
  - a zone is only being generated if the player's position to the current generated terrain edge is less than 16 blocks
- Currently, I am working on the texture component of Milestone 2



    


    
